read this user manual carefully before you use the appliance and save it for future reference. keep the plugged-in charging base away from water. do not place or store it over or near water contained in a bathtub, washbasin, etc. do not immerse the charging base or charging travel case in water or any other liquid. after cleaning, make sure the charging base or charging travel case is completely dry before you connect it to the mains. check if the voltage indicated on the appliance corresponds to the local mains voltage before you connect the appliance. never use the charging base or charging travel case if it is damaged in any way. if the charging base, the charging travel case, the cord or the plug is damaged, always have it replaced with one of the original type in order to avoid a hazard. if the appliance is damaged in any way (brush head, toothbrush handle), stop using it. this appliance contains no user-serviceable parts. if the appliance is damaged, contact the consumer care centre in your country (see chapter guarantee and service). do not use the charging base or charging travel case outdoors or near heated surfaces. this appliance is not intended for use by persons (including children) with reduced physical, sensory or mental capabilities, or lack of experience and knowledge, unless they have been given supervision or instruction concerning use of the appliance by a person responsible for their safety. children should be supervised to ensure that they do not play with the appliance. do not use the toothbrush in the bath or shower. if you have had oral or gum surgery in the previous 2 months, consult your dentist before you use the toothbrush. consult your dentist if excessive bleeding occurs after using this toothbrush or if bleeding continues to occur after 1 week of use. the sonicare toothbrush complies with the safety standards for electromagnetic devices. if you have a pacemaker or other implanted device, contact your physician or the device manufacturer of the implanted device before you use the sonicare. this appliance has only been designed for cleaning teeth, gums and tongue. do not use it for any other purpose. stop using the appliance and contact your doctor if you experience any discomfort or pain. if you have medical concerns, consult your doctor before you use the sonicare. the sonicare toothbrush is a personal care device and is not intended for use on multiple patients in a dental practice or institution. stop using a brush head with crushed or bent bristles. replace the brush head every 3 months or sooner if signs of wear appear. do not clean the brush head in the dishwasher. do not use other brush heads than the ones recommended by the manufacturer. supervise children while they are brushing until they have established good brushing habits. (common in whitening toothpastes), thoroughly clean the brush head with soap and water after each use. this prevents possible cracking of the plastic. this appliance complies with all standards regarding electromagnetic fields (emf). if handled properly and according to the instructions in this user manual, the appliance is safe to use based on scientific evidence available today. charge your sonicare - charge for 24 hours before fi rst use. the charge indicator fl ashes green until fully charged. rapid yellow fl ashing indicates battery low (fewer than 3 uses left). your sonicare has been designed to last up to 3 weeks on a single charge. read travelling with your sonicare for additional charging methods.the charger glass is designed to properly charge only one handle at a time. do not place metallic objects in the charger glass, as this may affect the charging process and may cause the charging base to overheat. this charging base is not compatible with previous sonicare models. brush - move the brush head slowly and gently across the teeth in a small back and forth motion so the longer bristles reach between your teeth. do not scrub like a manual toothbrush. apply light pressure to maximise sonicares effectiveness and let the sonicare do the brushing for you. 4 sections of your mouth. depending on the brushing mode you have selected, the quadpacer beeps at different intervals during the brushing cycle. clean - the ultimate in plaque removal (standard mode). white - whitening mode of 2 minutes to remove surface stains, plus an additional 30 seconds to brighten and polish your front teeth. polish - quick 1-minute mode to brighten and polish your front teeth. gum care - complete mode combines clean mode with an additional minute to gently stimulate and massage your gums to improve gum health. sensitive - extra gentle mode for sensitive teeth and gums. easy-start - the sonicare may feel ticklish upon first use. to help you ease into the sonicare experience, the easy-start feature gradually increases the sonic power over the first 14 brushings. brushing must last at least 1 minute to properly advance through this ramp-up cycle. easy-start may be deactivated - place the handle in the plugged-in charging base or charging travel case - push and hold the on/off button for 2 seconds; 1 beep indicates the easy-start feature has been deactivated; 2 beeps indicate the feature has been reactivated. clinical studies must be performed with the sonicare fully charged and the easy-start feature deactivated. 2sec. charge via wall socket - place the handle in the charging travel case, plug the usb cord into the usb wall adapter, and plug the usb wall adapter into a wall socket. the charge indicator on the handle fl ashes green until fully charged. charge via usb - remove the usb cord from the usb wall adapter, and insert the usb plug into any usb port. only use the usb wall adapter and usb cable provided. cleaning - clean the sonicare periodically. rinse the handle and the brush head. wipe down all surfaces with a soft cloth and mild soap, if desired. do not use sharp objects to clean. only the charger glass is top rack dishwasher-safe. do not clean brush head, handle, charging base or charging travel case in the dishwasher. storing - if you are not going to use the sonicare for an extended period of time, unplug the charging base, clean all parts and store them in a cool, dry place away from direct sunlight. do not throw away the appliance with the normal household waste at the end of its life, but hand it in at an official collection point for recycling. dispose of the rechargeable battery at an official collection point for batteries. by doing this, you help to preserve the environment. only remove the rechargeable battery at the end of the products life. this process is not reversible! make sure the rechargeable battery is empty. observe basic safety precautions. to remove the rechargeable battery from the handle: place the handle on a solid surface and lightly tap the housing about 2.5cm from the bottom edge with a hammer. turn the handle 90 degrees and repeat until the bottom cap separates from the handle. if you need service or information or if you have a problem, please visit the philips website at www.philips.com or contact the philips consumer care centre in your country. you find its phone number in the worldwide guarantee leaflet. if there is no consumer care centre in your country, go to your local philips dealer. damage caused by misuse, abuse, neglect, alterations or unauthorised repair. normal wear and tear, including chips, scratches, abrasions, discolouration or fading.